-: Welcome back.
In this lecture
we are going to look into delete EKS cluster
and then node groups section, okay?
So let's go into 0 1 0 4
and we have the steps here.
Before going into the steps
we need to understand one thing thoroughly, okay?
So one thing that is nothing
but you have created your cluster
and then node groups using EKSCTL
and whatever the objects it has created as part of EKSCTL.
If you're going to edit any of those things
then we need to ensure that
we need to roll back.
Example, just now we have added one rule here
in the EC2 management console for this security group
which starts with the remote,
means like which has the EKS iPhone remote access, right?
So for this,
what we have done is like
we have added the all traffic here, correct, right?
Which means
so whenever you are planning to delete the cluster
and then respect to note group or whatever it is, right?
So roll back this change
which is nothing
but go here edit inbound rules
and then remove these two rules
related to all traffic
and then leave it as the previous state.
And then you can directly go
and then delete the cluster
which will also delete the underlying node group.
First it will delete node group
and then it all the node groups under that cluster.
And finally it'll also delete the cluster control plan tool.
So that is within one command
you can delete everything
after rolling back your changes.
So this is the note one
and note two is in our future sections
whenever we are doing the story section or anything
we'll also go
and then update our worker notes, IAM policy,
which is nothing
but whatever we have seen here, right?
So if you go to instances
and if you click on this IAM role, right?
So inside this
we are going to add the role related to,
we are going to attach a role related to CSI Driver
means like EBS CSI driver related policy
we are going to associate.
So if that is the case,
if you go and then again
directly delete the cluster after your work or anything
again it is going to be in trouble.
So that's the reason
whatever manually you have edited the objects
created by EKSCTL,
please ensure that you revert them back
and then do the next step up deleting the cluster.
If not,
what is the problem, right?
So if not, what is the problem?
We'll see in a little bit.
But for now,
if you want to delete both node group
and then cluster,
you can use,
you can directly use EKCTL delete cluster
and then cluster name.
So that first node group will get deleted
and after that it'll also delete the cluster.
And if you want to only delete the node group
so then you can have like this,
EKSCTL delete node group
and the cluster name
and then node group name
and then it'll delete the node group first.
And after that you can even go ahead
and then delete your control plan,
which is nothing but the cluster.
So now one thing we are discussing is
what happens if we don't revert back these things, right?
Whatever we have edited the objects
which are was created by EKSCTL.
So what happens is some of the cloud formation events
will fail here during the deletion.
So you need to crosscheck
what it fail and then go
and then manually delete them
and then work on it
or again try to delete from cloud formation stack
and ensure that
whenever you click on the delete
automatically it'll say that exclude this item.
So check that box
and then exclude
and then delete it
so that you'll be able to delete.
But very important thing here is as part of this cluster
it creates one NAD gateway
which is already getting priced, right?
In addition to that
it also creates one network load balancer
which is in the pricing state only.
And it also created a lot of other stuff
which means like per day it is charging dollar 2.5
for this cluster control play.
Considering all those things
we should know how to delete this stuff,
which means like how to ensure
that we have deleted our cluster thoroughly
after our work is completed.
So the, for considering all these things
I have ensured that.
So this section is added for you
with two important notes here.
Let me come here.
And so here, okay?
So note one,
and then note two,
Like this whatever you change means like
if you change something,
if I change anything over the course,
I'll add that here.
But if you go and then change something
please ensure that you remove them
and then after that delete
so that you don't run into issues.
So that is the thing.
So in our next lecture
we'll focus on other stuff.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.